= SeriesJoiner

A gem for joining items in arrays together into grammatically correct series, such as "a, b and c". 

SeriesJoiner extends the <tt>Array</tt> class with a <tt>join_as_series()</tt> method which is similar to the built-in <tt>join()</tt> method. However, <tt>join_as_series()</tt> allows for custom delimiters and conjunctions. 

== Installation

Run the following (perhaps as sudo):

  gem install series_joiner
  
== Bundler Configuration

Add the following to your Gemfile:

  gem 'series_joiner'

== Usage

<tt>join_as_series()</tt> accepts the following options:

  :delimiter       # inserted between items, except for the final two (default => ', ')
  :final_delimiter # inserted between the final two items (if > 2), but before the conjunction (default => '')
  :conjunction     # inserted between the final two items (default => ' and ')

By default, items are joined as follows:

  ['a'].join_as_series #=> 'a'
  
  ['a', 'b'].join_as_series #=> 'a and b'
  
  ['a', 'b', 'c'].join_as_series #=> 'a, b and c'
  
  ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd'].join_as_series #=> 'a, b, c and d'

Here are some examples using custom delimiters and/or conjunctions:

  ['a', 'b', 'c'].join_as_series(:delimiter => '; ') #=> 'a; b and c'

  ['a', 'b', 'c'].join_as_series(:conjunction => ' or ') #=> 'a, b or c'

  ['a', 'b', 'c'].join_as_series(:delimiter => '; ', :conjunction => '; or, ') #=> 'a; b; or, c'

The use of the serial comma (i.e. the final comma sometimes used before the conjunction) is much debated in grammar circles (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serial_comma). And who doesn't enjoy a rousing debate about grammar? (Don't answer that)

By default, SeriesJoiner sides with The New York Times stylebook and does not use the serial comma. However, so as not to offend adherents to The Chicago Manual of Style, the <tt>:final_delimiter</tt> option can be set to <tt>','</tt> to include it. For example:

  ['a', 'b', 'c'].join_as_series(:final_delimiter => ',') #=> 'a, b, and c'

== I18n Support

If you're using SeriesJoiner in a project with I18n support, such as Rails, include the following translations for your locales:

  en:
    series_joiner:
      default_delimiter: ', '
      default_final_delimiter: ''
      default_conjunction: ' and '

== Implementation

This gem is generated with jeweler and uses shoulda for testing. To run tests:

  rake test

== Notes

This gem's <tt>join_as_series()</tt> method may be compared with the similar <tt>to_sentence()</tt> method implemented in ActiveSupport  (https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/master/activesupport/lib/active_support/core_ext/array/conversions.rb). There are several differences:
* <tt>to_sentence()</tt> requires ActiveSupport, while <tt>join_as_series</tt> has no dependencies;
* <tt>to_sentence()</tt> implements the serial comma (see definition above) by default, while <tt>join_as_series()</tt> does not; and,
* <tt>to_sentence()</tt> requires two options (<tt>:two_words_connector</tt> and <tt>:last_word_connector</tt>) to override a conjunction, instead of the one (<tt>:conjunction</tt>) required by <tt>join_as_series()</tt>.

== License

MIT License. Copyright (c) 2011 Cerebris Corporation. See LICENSE.txt for further details.